---
tags:
  - FINACO1
words:
  2025-08-10: 78
  2025-08-25: 718
---
# 1.1 Forms of Business Organization
## 1. Sole Proprietorship
\- **owned** by one individual

**Advantages**
\- Ease in organization 
\- Low cost of organizing

**Disadvantages** 
\- limited sources of financial resources
\- unlimited liability
## 2.  Partnership 
\- owned by two or more companies

**Advantages**
\- more financial resources than proprietorship
\- additional management skills

**Disadvantage:**
\- unlimited liability

## 3. Corporation
\- organized under **RA 11232** as a separate entity 

**Advantage**
\- ability to obtain large amount of resources

**Disadvantage**
\- Too many registration and reportorial requirements

***

# 1.2 Types of Business Operation
## Manufacturing
\- one which buys raw materials, process these into finished goods and also sells these to customers
> [!example]+
> - beauty parlor
> - barbershop
> - travel agency
> - internet shop
> - school
> - airline
## Merchandising

\- is one which **buys and sells** good or merchandise
> [!example]+
> - shoe store
> - bookstore
> - drugstore

# Service
\- a service business is one which provide service, for a fee, to clients or customer
> [!example]+
> - shoe factories
> - food processors


***

# 1.3 What is Accounting
\- Language of business to communicate with the users of accounting information
## Purpose of accounting is to
- identify, record, and communicate the economic events of a
- business entity to
- interested users
## 3 Activities Involved
- identification, recording, communication
- select economic events (transaction)
- record, classify, and summarize
- prepare accounting reports

> [!note]+
> it also includes bookkeeping function which is to analyze and interpret for users

## Acceptable definition/s: 
- Accounting is the art of recording, classifying, and summarizing in a significant manner, and in terms of money, transactions and events, which are in part of at least, of a financial character, and interpreting the results
- Accounting is the process of of identifying, measuring, and communicating economic information to permit informed judgements
- Accounting is a service activity. Its function is to provide quantitative information about economic entities that is intended to be useful in making economic decision

***
# 1.4 Users of Financial Information
## Owner or Investor
The one who puts in **capital** touch as money or property) in a business endeavor. To minimize risk of losing money, an owner or investor mist read the financial reports and seek answers to the following questions
1. Is the business profitable?
2. Has it accumulated sufficient financial wealth to remain stable
## Manager
The one who is responsible for **running the business**. Financial reports make it possible to evaluate performance of the business,
1) Are the plans being implemented beneficial to the business?
2) Is the business operating profitably?

> [!note]+
> Remember a losing business depletes wealth and is a reflection of inefficient management.

## Lender or Creditor
A lender or creditor (example Banco de Oro) assesses the **paying ability** of the business-borrower by reading the financial reports.
3) Will the business be able to pay its debt when it falls due?
4) Does it have liquid assets?
## Supplier
A supplier (example Divisoria Textile Store) **offers goods or merchandise** on cash basis or on credit term.
5) If offered on credit, will the business who is buying merchandise (such as T Shirts) in bulk be able to pay its account on the date it becomes due?
6) Does it have liquid assets?
The accounting information to determine the credit worth of the business is also based on its financial position or wealth.

## Government
The government seeks to answer the following questions by reading the accounting reports:
7) Is the business **paying the right taxes?**
8) Is it filing all the required documents?
The government through its tax agent, the **Bureau of Internal Revenue**, investigates tax returns and assesses truthfulness of the reported profit as well as the tax liability paid by the business.
**Securities and Exchange Commission** regulates the filing of documents, and the operations of partnerships and corporations.

## Employee
The employee wants:
	a) higher wages 
	b) benefits 
	c) good working conditions and d) security of tenure
The employees will assess the ability of the business to grant these demands through the financial reports. Remember, a losing business cannot afford to give higher salaries and more benefits.

## Customer
The customer assesses the company's ability to continuously supply the goods they need at the right price and right quality