---
tags:
  - FINACO1
words:
  2025-08-03: 370
---

## Owner or Investor
The one who puts in **capital** touch as money or property) in a business endeavor. To minimize risk of losing money, an owner or investor mist read the financial reports and seek answers to the following questions
1. Is the business profitable?
2. Has it accumulated sufficient financial wealth to remain stable
## Manager
The one who is responsible for **running the business**. Financial reports make it possible to evaluate performance of the business,
1) Are the plans being implemented beneficial to the business?
2) Is the business operating profitably?

> [!note]+
> Remember a losing business depletes wealth and is a reflection of inefficient management.

## Lender or Creditor
A lender or creditor (example Banco de Oro) assesses the **paying ability** of the business-borrower by reading the financial reports.
3) Will the business be able to pay its debt when it falls due?
4) Does it have liquid assets?
## Supplier
A supplier (example Divisoria Textile Store) **offers goods or merchandise** on cash basis or on credit term.
5) If offered on credit, will the business who is buying merchandise (such as T Shirts) in bulk be able to pay its account on the date it becomes due?
6) Does it have liquid assets?
The accounting information to determine the credit worth of the business is also based on its financial position or wealth.

## Government
The government seeks to answer the following questions by reading the accounting reports:
7) Is the business **paying the right taxes?**
8) Is it filing all the required documents?
The government through its tax agent, the Bureau of Internal Revenue, investigates tax returns and assesses truthfulness of the reported profit as well as the tax liability paid by the business.
Securities and Exchange Commission regulates the filing of documents, and the operations of partnerships and corporations.

## Employee
The employee wants:
a) higher wages 
b) benefits c) good working conditions and d) security
of tenure
The employees will assess the ability of the business to grant these demands through the financial reports. Remember, a losing business cannot afford to give higher salaries and more benefits.

## Customer
The customer assesses the company's ability to continuously supply the goods they need at the right price and right quality